so this is a very exciting day not
because of this I mean you've seen this
before this is a basketball a Wilson
basketball it looks a lot like what they
use in the NBA but you may have seen
something some previews of something a
lot more high-tech it is Wilson's
futuristic basketball that's inside of
this box right here and I don't know
what the presentation is like I don't
know what the unboxing experience is
like all I know is that I was part of a
select group of people that were
contacted and asked if they would like
to receive this new high-tech basketball
and of course I said yes and now we are
here so the reason I've got this other
basketball is in order to compare the
two the futuristic 3D printed high- Tech
basketball that costs a lot of money
I'll tell you more about that later and
of course a standard basketball that you
can buy at any Sporting Goods store I
think this one was about 60 bucks
Canadian it's not the exact thing that
they use on the NBA court but it is what
we're used to bouncing and it bounces
essentially the same way so we'll test
them both out we'll see how the
traditional air bladder holds up against
the new technology without any air
inside of it at all well I mean there's
air inside of it but it's not enclosed
in there I don't know how they did it so
this episode has been sponsored by paper
like this is a screen protect for your
iPad now I've talked about dedicated
devices that can have this effect where
it feels like you're writing on paper
but the best thing about this product is
that it takes something you already have
like an iPad and something that's much
more versatile like an iPad and makes
its input far more satisfying and of
course artistic make your iPad feel like
Paper Plus at the same time it's
protecting your display but it doesn't
end there they've actually got these
little grips for apple pencil in order
to give you a much more comfortable hold
they've got two that come inside here
precision and comfort they've also just
come out with this spray this will keep
your screen squeaky clean oh the unit
itself is microfiber so
[Music]
satisfying wow yeah so this Pro bundle
is styled as a one-pack solution for
iPad users it includes everything
someone needs to maximize their
productivity and creativity bundles
purchased online have been updated to
carry the most recent stock so this
screen protector has some proprietary
technology called Nano dots on the
surface this helps you achieve better
handwriting and excellent stroke
resistance while maintaining your screen
Clarity see one of the problems with
writing on your iPad is it doesn't have
a ton of feedback it feels like writing
on glass because well you are writing on
glass so once again thanks to paperlike
for sponsoring this portion of the
episode if you want to check out those
bundles head down to the description
I'll have all the links down there let's
take the classic out first now this
unboxing
experience extremely straightforward
look at that
that's frustration
free this one could use a little bit
more air but we're going to dial it in
to the exact PSI suggestion from Wilson
There we go 8.1 that should
do yeah that that feels right that feels
good and by the way if you also like
that pump right there I can I'm going to
link that because that's satisfying
right you see the reading on there I use
it for the car Tires Plus it has a
rechargeable battery removable and so it
can share battery with your other tools
I don't know what you're into I'm into
that I'm into some things here we go it
is
time for us to finally get our hands on
something that was teased for a while I
don't even remember the first time that
this was shown off but I've wanted to
get my hands on it ever since I first
saw it like I saw the laboratory in
which they were developing it some of
those um initial prototypes I'm
surprised it's it's even a real product
like I didn't know if it was going to be
more of a concept car type thing that
then would eventually change and trickle
its way into the store for some like
budget price like a toy like I didn't
just didn't know what it was going to
end up being but it's kind of the
opposite they're like no this is
regulation basketball behavior and it's
going to cost you a lot of money wow and
it starts with the special case imagine
buying a basketball that comes in its
own suitcase
briefcase
oh
wow heirless gen one welcome to the
future of sports Wilson is dedicated to
pushing the boundaries of sports
Innovation with the aess gen one
basketball this moment marks a historic
achievement and we hope it fills you
with the significance it holds in the
world of basketball this is kind of like
a collector's item at this point like I
got look at this this base for
it mirror base Wilson heess gen one and
I got this
tag that's so cool unbox therapy custom
tag with the basketball pattern okay
let's get the ball out look at
this who like first of all it
feels way different it's hard to
describe this texture I mean I have
experience with 3D printing it kind of
feels like that substrate almost like
it's been sanded or smoothed out and
then the other thing I'm noticing right
away is the depth of the 3D printed
portion is it's not a single layer like
it's far more complicated than I
expected there's an interior and an
exterior wall and there's maybe a
centimeter of depth between them with
tiny little cutouts in between which I
presume are all completely necessary in
order to achieve the bounce that you're
looking for now there's a couple of
other important or like unique
characteristics you have heirless gen
one written over here
and you have the Wilson logo over here
but other than that it's a uniform
design and you can see the way they've
integrated your typical seams I mean
they're not really seams here I wonder
how long it would take to 3D print
something like this holding it I can
understand why it has the insane price
tag that it does and I'll just tell you
at this point this thing is
$2,500 but there's not going to be many
of them it's it's a limited edition type
of thing at least for now and it's
probably extremely timec consuming to
build this I don't know how many people
will actually use them versus keep them
as a collector's item like this for a
basketball fan that is something
incredibly exclusive the other thing I
notice is it's as you look around the
edge like you see here for example you
don't have entire cutouts Instead This
pinch comes through and it's not
completely symmetrical but I assume
that all this has been considered and
every indentation and and every puncture
is likely necessary plain original
basketball new airless gen one and I
think they wrote gen one on purpose in
order to imply hey we're not done here
we're releasing this for the super fans
this is going to be a developing space
at the moment the feel Advantage goes to
the traditional Wilson basketball the
tech
advantage and the airless Advantage
obviously goes over here so let's go
ahead and
bounce
what okay first things first this the
sound this doesn't didn't come through
to me on the other videos that I watched
the
sound
kind of satisfying though maybe you can
hear that it's like a a whoosh that goes
through the ball and I guess I should
have expected that because you've got
all these openings here it's bizarre
because it bounces the same way but yet
those other attributes like the the
sound difference and that air
friction kind of just changes your
perception of the bounce but it does
feel
satisfying it made
me I mean the grip is a lot different
right I'm
feeling the texture on my
fingertips the grip is the biggest
difference
traditional so
loud I remember thinking when I was
watching the All-Star game I was like I
wonder if they're going to use that
airless basketball but I'm realizing now
that it is much more unique than I
expected I was wondering if it would
feel anything like a regular basketball
it does
[Music]
not they bounce almost exactly the same
way just your other senses are all
screwed up as to wait a second shouldn't
that have a louder sound in order to
bounce that
way but it
doesn't will you want to try I don't
know if it's intentional but there's
like a rough surface to yeah like a
proper 3D printed object
who it feels like
uh not a basketball it doesn't feel like
it but I know it behaves like it wo like
it bounces the way that it should it it
it's almost like the characteristics
don't match up in your mind because
you've bounced so many balls in your
life soccer volleyball basketball you
know what they feel like smells
different too well yeah I mean it smells
like smells like the future that's the
thing is the feedback is the same as a
basketball so you don't even you don't
need to look at it you don't need to
guess where it's going to bounce and the
crazy part is it has no PSI there's no
PSI and then the question becomes where
are the barriers and boundaries for this
what happens if you're outside versus
inside what if it's hot what if it's
cold the other what does the Sun do to
it like it's wet it's a lot of questions
would would it eventually get
discolored so obviously I can't test the
like PSI of something like this for
obvious reasons there's no air in it but
what I can test is the weight and see
how that compares to the other ball I've
got over there so uh first actually
let's get the weight of this ball and
remember this is inflated to just over 8
PSI that is just under 600 G NBA
basketball weight in G oh here we go an
NBA
basketball is 624 G now that's with the
ball being inflated between 7.5 and 8.5
pounds per inch
that probably has to do with the genuine
leather that the official ball uses this
one even though this is called the
authentic series it's an indoor outdoor
ball and this retails for about 60 bucks
so if the official uh weight of the ball
is 620 G then this is actually closer
than that ball at 6102 G anyway
extremely close regard L think about it
has to be the official size but then it
has to have synthetic leather regular
leather is going to be heavier so that's
how you have 600 here even though it's a
size seven and then an official NBA ball
is 620 and then I wonder if they
couldn't get 620 with this or you know
if whatever compromises had to be made
to make it bounce effectively with these
Dimensions maybe 610 and a half was as
close as they could get and I know some
people will watch the video and say well
I don't get it what's the point if it
ain't broke don't fix it like there's no
way that's as good as the existing
technology but that's not the idea if
there wasn't any experimentation you
wouldn't even necessarily land on where
they landed in the first place so
whether you're talking about sporting
equipment or electric vehicles or
smartphones or whatever the tech happens
to be it's experimentation and
generation one of something that
eventually takes you to where we end up
which is generation 2 3 4 5 10 will it
eventually be the standard basketball I
don't know I don't have that answer I
bet you even Wilson wouldn't say that
that's necessarily the case but maybe
some of their findings work their way
into a hybrid maybe there's an internal
bladder inside of a ball like this that
looks something like this and therefore
doesn't require inflation I don't know
what's going to happen but at the moment
this is certainly the most high-tech
basketball that I've seen and I'm
extremely grateful to be one of the
first people in the world to interact
with it that's pretty
cool